Now that we have our card and card list components the next thing that we want to add in is our search
feature.
So if we go into our final application when we look at the search feature what we see is a text box
that takes a user's typed inputs and filters out the cards based on what they type in.
So if I type in L E it will filter out any monster whose name does not have l e in it.
Now how do we build this.
Well let's first go back to our application code and what we first need is the H the Alma element that
will represent the text input and what we're gonna use is an input HMO element.
Now these input HMO elements are pretty much just basic text inputs if we put type on it which is a
HDMI property that all inputs have we can give it a different string and that string will help us get
some features in the input that we might want for different types of inputs.
For example if we use password whatever we type will become hidden and well the one we actually want
will be search and what search gives us is the ability to put on this place holder which will essentially
put a string there when we haven't typed anything into the search field.
So now we'll say search monsters and that is the place holder.
Right.
But once we type we see that it gets hidden and then we can clear it away with that little X button
so type search allows us to use that place holder.
But now what we need to do is we actually need to be able to hijack or take control whenever the user
types something into the input because we want to store that string on our state and by storing on our
state we're able to use it in order to actually filter out our monsters.
So let's first figure out how to store that on our state well the first thing we would do is actually
add a field to our state that would represent what that stored value will be.
So we'll call it search field and we'll make it start as an empty string next what we'll do is we actually
have access to this method on our input called on change and what.
On change does is it fires with this synthetic event which is essentially just a event in our browser.
Right.
When ever the input is changed so whenever the user types or removes anything but let's just take a
look at what that looks like and what we passed on change is actually this function where e represents
the synthetic event we're talking about right.
And for now let's just console log e and we'll see what happens.
Let's go to our browser and open up our terminal using right click and clicking inspect and then hitting
the console now whenever we type anything into our input we will see our on change fire which was that
function that we wrote that logs that synthetic event.
We also see that it changes whenever we remove any of the characters.
And this is because it's literally as the method says whenever the value in that input changes fire
my on change event fire the on change with whatever function we pass to it and what we'll see on our
synthetic event is that it's this huge object with all these things on it.
And this is because it's a native event that the browser uses to do all kinds of different things.
Right.
It gives us a lot of control but we actually don't need to worry about more than like ninety nine percent
of the stuff on here.
The main thing that we do want to look at is this target value.
There's a get and there's a set but that mainly means that we can either get the value of what target
is or set the value but we don't want to set the value we just want to get the the actual target value
and what it will give us back is the HDD him element and we can see if we log it so when I say that
it gives us the HMO element it's because it's the HD him out element that fired the event.
So if we now log it we see that that's our input and we can actually hover over it and it'll tell us
where on the page that element is and there's our search element right so what we want off of this is
actually the value and value is a property on the input that will give us literally the string value
that it holds.
Right.
And see as we type it.
We're getting that string value and that's how we're going to be able to store that on our state now.
How do we store this.
We can do this by calling set state here the same way that we did when we got our users went inside
of our component did mountain method.
So what we can do is call this dot set state and we can pass it that we want our search field value
to be the E dot target dot value.
Now if we wanted to see this actually persist right.
If we want to make sure that our state was being updated normally what we would think to do is just
console log after we call this dot set state so we would think that if we called console log this dot
state that we would see our state update.
Now let's actually test this out we see that as we type.
It looks like our event is firing but our search field key is always one letter behind which means the
first time we type D search field was actually not updated.
Right.
Why is this.
Well this is actually because said state is in a synchronous function call so asynchronous versus synchronous
is a big thing in JavaScript development especially in react synchronous action is something that we
can expect to happen almost immediately.
It's something that pretty much happens and JavaScript knows the amount of time it'll take so javascript
will wait for that thing to finish before it continues.
Right.
Running the rest of the code afterwards an asynchronous action or event is something that actually takes
an indefinite amount of time that JavaScript does not know.
So what it does is it actually runs the rest of the code after and then when the asynchronous event
finishes it then runs that finished event.
Now I know this sounds confusing right now but I promise that we'll cover it later when it makes more
sense to do so.
Right now the main thing I want you to focus on is just that this set state is actually not happening
immediately when we would expect it to.
Which means that yes our state will be updated with this value that we've set here.
But it's not going to happen in the immediate sense that we would expect it to.
Instead what we would do in order to log our state there is actually a solution that react given us
and it's going to be the second argument that we pass to set state.
Now it's going to be a callback which runs after a set state is finished.
So after set state has update our state it will run the function that we pass.
And here we can log this dot state and here we'll see that when we type now we do see our newest latest
value.
So that's a thing to remember with said state if we wanted to see or do something with our state right
after we set it then we have to do it inside of this second argument function that will get called right
after said state OK.
Now that we have our search field being stored let's actually filter out our monsters but let's return
our code back and get rid of this part that we don't need.
So let's remove that and then we don't need these brackets either because all we want to do
is just call our set state value.